# Habitat-Manager
USFWS - RCW habitat management script tools for QGIS LTR 3.10

This project is indirectly a continuation of an effort that was initiated in 2004 between the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and Environmental Systems Research Institute (ESRI), Inc. in which an application ‘Red-Cockaded Woodpecker (RCW) Foraging Matrix’ was created to assist avian biologist with RCW habitat management. The application was designed to interface with ESRI’s Arc Suite 9.0, but subsequent changes to ESRI’s Application Programming Interface (API) in the update to version (v) 9.2 degraded the applications functionality. In 2007, Intergraph Corporation created their own version and took over responsibility for the maintenance of the ‘RCW Foraging Matrix’. With each versioning evolution of ArcGIS, the application would require reprograming to retain functionality incurring additional financial burdens for the USFWS. Intergraph continued to foster the applications’ transition up until 2015 Arc version 10.2. With ESRI’s evolution through v10.4 to v10.6 the application has once again run into functionality issues. The USFWS has decided to take a new approach to this problem and has teamed with North Carolina State University (NCSU) in an effort to develop an open source (GPL) QGIS Plugin that replicates the desired functionality of the previous existing Visual Basic Application ‘RCW Foraging Matrix’. This project initiates an effort to provide USFWS with an open source application where USFWS owns and maintains the source code that can expand and evolve to assist with the management of multiple endangered species habitats.
